Thank you so much for joining us today.
Welcome to the RStudio Enterprise Community Meetup.
I'm Rachel Dempsey.
I'm calling in from the RStudio office in Boston today.
Today we are streaming out to LinkedIn and YouTube Live.
If you have just joined now, feel
free to introduce yourselves through the chat window
and say hello, maybe where you're calling in from.
For anybody who's joining this group for the first time,
a special welcome to you.
We're so happy to have you here with us today.
If you are joining for the first time,
this is a friendly and open meetup environment
for teams to share the work they're
doing within their organizations,
teach lessons learned, network with each other,
and really just allow us all to learn from each other.
Thank you all so much for making this a welcoming community.
We really want to create a space where everybody can participate
and we can hear from everyone.
I like to reiterate that.
We love to hear from everyone, no matter
your level of experience or the industry
that you work in as well.
While you can ask questions on whichever platform
you're watching from, you can also
ask questions anonymously through the Slido link, which
I'll pull up on the screen here in just a second.
There we go.
But we are so excited to have so many members of the pharma
community here to join us today as well.
So I'd love to use this opportunity
to share some information about a few other pharma communities
and resources that exist today.
And I have my colleague here, Phil Bauscher, joining us.
And I'll pull him on stage here as well.
Hey, Phil.
Hey, how's it going?
Good.
How are you doing?
Excited for the session today.
Absolutely.
Yeah, Phil, while we have everybody here today,
I thought it'd be great to just share a little bit more
about some of the pharma communities that exist today
and resources that are out there.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
So a lot of exciting things happening in the community.
We have the work through R&Pharma.
We have things through your champion page,
which is fantastic for people that
are setting up environments.
We also have a lot of exciting packages
that are coming out of the pharmaverse
right now in the pharma ecosystem.
So yeah, lots of new exciting things in the ecosystem.
That's awesome.
Well, thanks, Phil.
Phil's going to be here hanging out and helping me
behind the scenes as well to help with some
of the questions coming in.
But glad to have you all here today.
So for today's meetup, we are really
excited to be joined by Afshin Mashadi-Hossain,
Senior Principal Scientist at Bristol-Myers Squibb,
who will be sharing their data science framework for data
collaboration.
And as mentioned earlier, we will have time for Q&A as well.
So you can put those questions into wherever
you're watching from or use the Slido link as well
for anonymous questions.
But with that, thank you all again for joining us.
It's amazing to see such a great group of people
here and so many familiar names popping up on the screen.
So love to get to connect with you in the chat as well.
But with that, I'd love to turn it over to our speaker
for today's meetup, Afshin.
And I'll send Phil and I backstage here, Afshin,
and pull you on.
Sounds great.
Yeah, thanks a lot, Rachel.
Thanks, Phil.
Hi, everyone.
My name is Afshin Mashadi-Hossain.
And as Rachel mentioned, I'm from Bristol-Myers Squibb.
Before going further, I wanted to, again,
thank the RStudio Pharma Meetup community and organizers,
particularly Rachel and Phil here
for giving me the opportunity to share with you
all data as a product, the data science framework for data
collaborations.
This is a work that my co-authors and I,
Julie Rutlowski, Garth McGrath, and I
presented to R in Pharma back in late 2021.
So the hope in presenting it again and sharing it here
again is that we have a little bit more time
for more of a discussion and question and answer.
And hopefully, some of those conversations
will benefit from the experiences
that we have accumulated since that presentation last year.
So to start things off, I think it's
quite critical to provide a definition of data product
and data as a product.
If you have heard of this term, you
might have noticed that in different circles,
in different groups, it could mean quite different concepts.
How we are defining data product
is simply a data object that, much like any other products,
come with a set of characteristics or attributes.
So specifically, we call data product,
this notion of data product, to be a data object that
is use case driven.
This is in contrast with, quote unquote,
wrangled data that can serve any purpose.
It's clean data, and you can use it for whatever purpose.
So this has to be, the data product
has to have a specific user story or a set of coherent
objectives that it achieves.
Now, if you have that level of specificity,
you can imagine that you may have slightly different use
cases leading to a variety of different data objects.
So it becomes even more critical to be able to version control
it and track it.
So as you have different, slightly different data sets,
you should be able to branch it.
You should be able to version track it.
So making it use case specific and being able, then,
to branch it and version track it becomes quite critical.
It needs to be tested.
It needs to be reproducible.
And I would say not only reproducible, but easily
reproducible, meaning that with a handful of commands,
you can just reproduce the data.
It should be easily maintainable, extensible.
Think about this as your typical R package in this context.
So in this context of R users, you
can use an R package for whatever end
that you have in your analysis or otherwise.
You can also use that to integrate it
into a new R package and build upon it and extend it.
Same should apply to data products.
You should be able to integrate it into a new data product,
bring a few of them together, build upon them, extend them.
So it should be extensible.
It should be findable, accessible, and portable.
And notes on that last one is that as data scientists,
if I may speak for a lot of us, that we may not necessarily
be super conscious or have concerns about whether my data
is coming from Azure or AWS S3 or whatever platform,
whatever infrastructure I have.
But our colleagues in IT or other places, they may.
So as my data, as the requirements
of my organization changes, I need
to take my data from, let's say, AWS S3 to Azure or vice versa
or to some network drive.
All of these characteristics that we talked about
should go along.
So it shouldn't be something that
is dependent on the platform or technology
outside of the data product.
These core set of features, there
could be other features that are dependent on the platform.
So these core set of characteristics and attributes
define what we call a data product.
Now, data as a product is a framework
to make it practical for data science teams
to pull together their data wrangling efforts
towards collaboratively building data products.
So on one hand, we have this product.
On the other hand, we have a set of processes
that allows us to easily, or at least methodically,
build these data products.
So the processes could be agreements between the teams,
like how we want to use the conventions of coding,
as well as some automations and tools that allow us
to implement those agreements.
So data as a product, you can think about as a framework,
way of thinking, as well as the tool sets
that allow us to implement that way of thinking.
Data product is the output.
So with that out of the way, as far as the definition goes,
looking at these attributes, perhaps it's
not difficult to imagine a variety of motivations
why a data science team may be interested in adopting
a framework that will lead to their data sets or data
objects coming out with all of these attributes.
But to focus on one, perhaps you can
think about this 80-20 rule of data science, which
is basically this observation made by a lot of the data
scientists that a typical week could involve four days out
of that five working days that you are engaged in data
processing or data wrangling, whatever you call it.
And then on that last day, you may get a chance
to actually do your data analysis.
So as a data scientist or leader of a data science team,
if you are interested in adding more agility
to your overall team efforts, it
is fair to look at this data processing
and try to bring in additional agility to it
and efficiency to it.
And there are a variety of approaches
that teams have implemented.
Hopefully, we all work in teams that heroic data wrangling
is not one of those approaches.
No one is advocating for shrinking that 80% to 30%
by just willpower and working extra hours.
Hopefully, that is not the case.
But then there are things like new data agreements
that you may put in place with data vendors.
You may ask your data platform to do more
in the way of data validation.
Even pushing that validation of data
further upstream into your pipelines, that could help.
In some cases, it may seem appealing or maybe appealing
to extend the capacity of your data science team
if the resource is limited within the data science team
to extend the capacity of the data science team
by bringing additional resources that could then
help with just the task of building data.
However, one caveat around that is, particularly
in the case of pharma, you can think
about how much domain knowledge and expertise is needed
and gets factored in as we are processing the data.
So science and context can be missed.
And so that is a caveat.
But setting that aside, these ideas
as similar approaches collectively
perhaps provide some level of relief.
Perhaps a slightly different view
would be rather than seeking relief,
we can acknowledge that here's my team spending
their precious time and resources and expertise.
I should emphasize that expertise part.
Building something, so there's a lot of value in that.
If 80% of my team is building this artifact or output,
that has a lot of value in it.
So instead of thinking about or along the way
of thinking about reducing that time to getting that,
can I also think about how can I drive more value
from this precious resource?
And if I'm thinking in that sense,
I'm not trying to remove the burden of this effort.
I'm just trying to drive more value from it.
But to alleviate that burden, help with that,
I can also make collaboration easy.
So that big lift is shared across the team.
So it becomes a little bit easier.
So you make collaboration easy.
When permissible, you can add a dash of automated standards
and make, put in place processes, process frameworks
for collaboration.
So not surprisingly, perhaps at this point,
you can imagine that this latter approach of driving more value
from data wrangling is what the framework of data
as a product, as we are defining it, advocates.
So the idea is that you're bringing in your usual input
data, and you're adding your logic of data wrangling.
And then you feed it into this process
that out would come a data product, which
then can be fed into a number of utilities, analysis, apps,
automated reports.
And this data product now is reusable and extensible.
So that work is essentially something that lives on.
That in contrast with a typical workflow of a data scientist,
which may include data wrangling,
be so inseparably intertangled with your utility,
be it analysis or otherwise, that once that analysis is done
or once that utility has run its course,
then that piece of data work is essentially
disposable.
So you have an expensive, very, very expensive effort
that now has no more use.
So up to this point, we have talked
about this notion of data product in abstract.
So let's think about what's our north star.
What are we aiming for here?
So as I alluded to earlier, it has
to serve a coherent set of objectives.
So this is one of the core requirements.
Again, thinking about any product out there.
If you have a vacuum cleaner, it's
not going to be a hairdryer or an iron.
So it has to have a coherent set of objectives.
So that limits the scope of the effort.
Even with a limited scope, you don't
want to be building it from A to Z all in one shot.
So think about, again, a product.
Like you may have different components
that you build and you assemble.
It has to be built modularly.
And if you are building it modularly
and your buddy here is building some parts
and you are building some parts of it
and you're bringing it all together,
it should be something that, while not totally
setting the stone that you're doing exactly this way,
it has to have, it shouldn't be something that is an art
and everybody does it their own way.
So collaboration requires some blueprint
of how we are building these elements.
Now, again, collaboration requires everything
to be versioned so we don't get tangled up
in what version of what elements we are
talking about across the team.
So by everything here, I mean code, environment, and data
needs to be versioned.
So all of the things that I've talked about so far,
as far as the requirements of the product,
has to do with the build process.
But from a user perspective, it also has to be easy to use.
So connect, list, get is all you need
to be able to pull the data down and use it.
So as a user, you should have an easy interface.
And lastly, as I mentioned, we want
to have it be platform agnostic.
So if you're going from S3, later on you
need to go to file systems and RStudio Connect
is your next destination.
The data science workflow should dictate where your data is
or if there are other requirements that
can be accommodated and you don't
have to worry about the functionality of your data
being compromised.
Now, this is the product's requirement.
And there should be a build tool that
can enable building that product according to those attributes.
So you can see the linkage here that a build tool,
given all those attributes that I mentioned are requirements,
should naturally support modular development,
should minimize boilerplate, should enable reproducibility
by capturing everything in the state of the code, data,
and environment, should encourage best code style
practices, should enable full traceability of everything,
code, data, environment.
And as a builder, you should not be learning a new language.
If you know R, if you know Git, you should be good to go.
Now, if this was instead of a data as a product,
this was software as a product, you
would rightly expect that the tool is already around.
And in the rich set of tools and experiences and processes
that have been developed and implemented
by DevOps community, when we are talking about the software,
we can accommodate all of those features of a build tool.
The difference here is that not only we have code,
but we have data.
So this gives us an inspiration that if we
were able to capture data as code,
we would then build a bridge to this rich set of tools
and experiences that are available in the DevOps
community and put those to use for our end.
So building with data as a code, what's the approach here?
So thinking about the concept there.
Let me walk through an example of how
this could work conceptually.
So let's say you are here in this point one.
You have some data sets.
Some of you in pharma are familiar
with this nomenclature.
So let's say you have some LV data, which
is this lab data collected on a cohort of patients.
You have some medication data and a bunch more data sets
that you have at your disposal.
Now, you start your project.
You set the initialization in motion.
It starts capturing the environments
that you're developing in.
It adds the remote locations for your code, for your data.
So that initialization is done.
Now, you go ahead and onboard your data into your data
product.
So let's start with this LV, which
is this collection of lab measurements
on a cohort of patients you have.
And so you bring that in.
And let's say you can now sync that
to your remote location, which you have already
defined at the initialization.
So at this stage, this is the part
that perhaps worth attention is that you can capture this data
that you're pushing to a remote location
with a set of metadata in a way that uniquely identifies that.
So you're capturing some metadata,
like the label for that data, like some description.
And this version, which could be essentially
a SHA hash of that data, or any other flavor of getting
some sort of a hash for that data,
uniquely identifies that data set.
And some additional set of metadata
that then will help you retrieve this data when
you have the need for it.
So now you have converted your data
to a set of metadata that uniquely
identifies and gives some description about that data.
And if you capture that, as you repeat
adding additional data sets, you build
a manifest that has all the information
you need for your input data.
And that is the approach of converting data to code.
Then as you add additional layers of code for logic
and you're capturing your environment, all of this
is code.
You can commit it.
You can push it.
And when you have done that pushing,
in your remote GitHub repository,
now you have the build logic, you
have the package dependency, and you
have all the information you need
to identify the input data.
Now, this recipe is complete in a way
that a colleague sitting at this point four
or maybe a CI CD machine that gets
triggered by the push sitting downstream
can build this from scratch and push it again
to the same remote data repository in the same fashion,
capturing the same set of metadata.
Now, everything here has been converted into code.
So your data lives in its data location.
Your code lives in the code location.
And as long as you have access to both,
you can build it from scratch.
We have implemented this framework in R.
So it's a family of R packages we call gapper.
And it is available for use to build, essentially,
implement the framework that I just shared with you all.
So this family of package consists of three packages,
dpi, dpdeploy, dpbuild.
Why three packages, you may ask.
I can come up with a couple of different answers,
historically, in terms of the bulk and code management.
But perhaps the most important one
is that you can think about three different persona that
would be using these packages.
So starting with dpi, it means it's
meant to simplify access to data products.
So if you are just a user, whether it's
an application or a report, you only
need a handful of functions to be able to access the data
products.
So you don't need the bulk of the rest of the packages.
dpbuild is meant to simplify building of data products.
This is the bulkiest of the packages.
This is used by the data developer.
So you can think about the persona here
as the data developer.
dpdeploy can be a data developer.
Or it can be a workflow automation machine.
So you have the task of dpdeploys
to simplify sync and deployment of data products.
So you can have a CI-CD process set up
where, as your data comes in, it gets pushed.
It's kind of like a shuttling of the data
from a location that is some workstation
to the remote location.
But how does this?
So now that we have thought about all of this,
how does this all come together?
So there are a variety of workflows
that a dapper needs to accommodate.
Like when you write code, you don't always
start from setting up your project
and going all the way to deployment.
So you may set up your project, develop some,
go do something else, come back, have some pull requests coming
your way, change that, deploy.
So there's a lot of different workflows
that needs to be accommodated.
But perhaps to just kind of provide an end-to-end example,
if you were to start from the beginning and go to the end,
it would look something like this.
So you start with that DP in it, which sets up your project.
It's kind of like when you do Git in it.
So it sets up your project.
You add your data, so you onboard your data.
We are, again, encouraging best practices.
We are encouraging folks to spend a little bit of time
here making sure the data they're onboarding
is actually what they want to onboard.
Then you add your logic of the code,
and then you deploy the code and data.
So at this point, essentially, everything
has been put out there, data and codes,
for anyone who has access and granted access
to be able to access the code and access the data.
Now, what I want to emphasize here
is that this step is adding your code
is the step that should take the bulk of your time.
Whether or not you're using Dapr,
you need to spend some time developing
that logic of data processing.
So the idea here is that if you, let's say,
today spend an hour on a particular project
or two hours on a particular project
just doing the data processing part,
now bringing that into the Dapr framework,
you're adding maybe 5, 10 more minutes on top of that.
But still, the bulk of your effort remains the same.
So the boilerplate should be minimized.
Now, this is the claim.
And we're going to go through an example, a toy example,
that hopefully shows this.
The toy example is overly simplistic, admittedly.
We are starting from the cars data set.
And if I recall correctly, this data set
comes with a number of cars.
And I believe there is a column that
is about the distance from the point
that a car or driver applies the brake and the car starts.
I think that's the case.
So that column is in British units.
And let's say the user story that you have
asks you to convert that to a metric unit.
Overly simplistic vignette.
And actually, this vignette is also
in the vignette for the package, so if you wanted to check it
out more closely.
But being overly simplistic, still, the wiring and setup
of the project is identical to a bigger project that
may be more realistic with tons of data and tons of logic.
So going through that, hopefully,
give us a sense of what's the degree of boilerplate
and the time that we need to allow for that.
So we start with this setup step.
Again, thinking about all the steps that I mentioned
in the previous setup data code deploy.
So we're going to go through that.
So setup here, simply, there's this function,
vpinit, that sets up your project folder,
runs git init, captures your environment thanks to RN.
So it does the RN init, adds remote for code and data,
and records project metadata.
Let's take a look at how this looks in practice.
So this video, we are essentially
going through that initialization step.
So we are bringing in the library.
We are setting up some promises for credential
that we need to access.
We are not providing a credential to the framework.
We're just saying, these are the environment variables
you will need when you are ready to build the data product.
And we are putting that into this vpinit.
We are also providing the location
of where the data needs to go.
And then we execute this vpinit,
so which takes in as parameters some metadata.
What's the branch name?
What's the project name?
What's the user's story?
What's the remote location?
And those promises around environment variables
that will be needed at the time.
So again, here we have a single command, really,
at line 10, that sets up your project.
Then we onboard the data.
And in this case, we have a very simple dataset
that we are onboarding.
But in general, you can onboard any datasets
bundled together as zip or otherwise into your data product.
One thing I want to mention here
is that the notion of data product being versions
is that it is a snapshot.
So you may have started live data,
but you are snapshotting it at that point.
So there are some datasets that you need to have at hand
as a snapshot, and then you build your data product.
So you onboard that data product,
I'm sorry, your input data into your input folder.
As I said, there are some environment variables
that you promised that you will be providing
at the time of the build.
So you set those promised environment variables.
Then there's this step of dpinputmap.
So you run this command dpinputmap.
This is a step that we added
with the mindset of encouraging best practices,
which in our mind is that if you have some bulk of data,
it is beneficial to take a look
before sending everything over.
In some cases, you know that you want to send
all of the data that you have put in the input folder over,
and that's easy.
In this case of two examples, that's going to be the case.
But in some cases, you want to look at some metadata.
Are there duplicate data?
Are there names that could clash?
Confusing elements there.
So there's this step that you do dpinputmap,
and you get all of that metadata.
You take a look at it,
and you pick the elements that you need to sync,
and you call dpinputsync by setting those flag
of what data sets you want to sync.
And this syncing step could take a little while, right?
Because at this point, literally you're pushing
the data sets one at a time to your remote location.
So if you have hundreds of those data sets,
depending on the size, it could take a little bit.
And this last step, you're doing dpinputwrite,
which is actually pretty fast because at this point,
all of those input data sets that you have synced
are all metadata code.
So you're just writing a manifest.
So it's pretty quick.
So at this point, let's take a look and see how this looks.
So we are just writing this cars data set
into the input folder.
And so that is the only input data
that we want to onboard into our data product.
Next, we are gonna activate the project.
This assumes that there was a gap
between this initialization and then this second step.
If you have already, if you want to go through
all the way from initialization,
you don't need to activate again.
Then you set up those environment variable that we promised.
So we set up those environment variables,
and then we capture everything into this config object
that has metadata, all the elements that we need
to have at hand for the project to proceed smoothly.
So now at this point, we only have one data set.
So we do the input map, and then we essentially know
that we want to sync this data.
There's nothing that we want to exclude or change.
So we just sync by calling dpinputsync.
Now your input data has been synced.
This was pretty quick because it was just a simple data,
a small data set.
So you get a version for that,
and now you're doing the right,
and you're done at this point.
So now you have converted, you've set up your project,
you've converted your input into code, onboarded that data,
and now comes the part that you're gonna be building
the data product itself, going from input to the output.
So this is the part that you're gonna be spending your time,
bringing your subject matter expertise
to codify all the requirements and all of the user stories
that you heard about into code
that does the logic of data wrangling.
In our case, it's very simple, right?
You know, we have only changing one column,
but in essence, it's gonna be exactly the same every time.
So you have dpinputsread, which reads in all of the input
data that you have synced and onboarded
into your data product.
You add the wrangling logic.
Then you structure your data object.
There's this function called dpstructure
that structures the input, the output,
metadata all into one object.
Then similar to dpinputswrite,
you are registering that data as a metadata now.
So again, now your input was converted to code.
Now your output is also converted to code.
And since everything is code, you do dpcommit and dppush.
And at this point, you have a repository with README
and all of the documentation that you need
to build this data product from scratch.
Your data product hasn't left your workstation,
but anybody who has access to the repo
can build it in their site and push it
and include it in the CI-CD machine.
So let's take a look to see how this goes.
This is gonna be super fast.
So you read all of the data sets,
you added your logic, made the output,
structured it in a data object,
and then you write it as a YAML file,
and then you do the dpcommit and dppush,
and that will generate your repo.
So at this point, the work is done
as far as the data developer is concerned,
and the data can be built.
But if you wanted to deploy at this point,
and you don't have to, for example,
you may be able to commit push a bunch of times
until you get to a state that your data product
is at a state that you want to push.
But let's say you are at that stage
and you're ready to push,
so then you call the cpdeploy function,
it's a single function,
and it will deploy the data product for you.
This may take, again, a little bit,
because at this point, you're also pushing
your data product to your remote location,
depending on the size.
But that essentially concludes the A to Z
of building the data product.
Now, if you wanted to access it
from the persona of a user,
you only need these three commands,
dpconnect, which logs into the library
that has all the data product,
dplist, it lists all the available data and metadata,
and dpget, then you can pick from the list
of data products that you have available.
So let's take a look at how this works.
So dpdeploy deploys the data product.
It doesn't even need any parameters at this point.
If you have followed the steps as I described,
this was pretty quick,
because it was a small data product.
Then, as a user, now you can access this library
doing dpconnect.
And so now you're connected to that library,
and then you can list the content.
Now, as the content's being listed,
perhaps it's worth taking a quick look at it.
It has a lot of useful metadata,
like who committed the data,
what was the commit note,
what is the git shawl,
that if I needed to go back to the code,
how can I pull this specific code,
and a number of other metadatas that are of use.
And lastly, if you found your data product
that you want to pull,
you can just pull that by version.
Now, by convention, what we have done
is that the data product's input contents,
we keep it as what we call pinlink.
Essentially, it is a function called
a specific version of a data that was integrated.
So the data itself is not integrated
into the list that is the data object.
The output, since there are fewer of them,
we always keep it as a data frame within the data.
So here you see that I'm pulling an input,
and it's a function, it's really a function call.
So I put the input data,
and then I can pull the output,
which is an actual data frame connected to the data.
So we've talked again about this data product
and what is requirement,
but how does it feel, how does it look when you look at it?
The framework doesn't really impose
any specific structure.
You can bring in your own structure as you wish,
but by convention, this is kind of a structure
that we typically follow.
So by convention, we always start with data product
as DT and underscore, perhaps the project name,
and then some particular topic
that deals with perhaps a branch of that data product.
And we have input, output, metadata, README,
you can have other options.
So it's comprised of data frames
and functions that do various things.
A family of functions that worth to mention
is this pinlink that I mentioned earlier.
So let's say you have this data product,
it's had some input,
you look at the clinical component
that you're interested in the demographics.
At this point, at this leaf,
you have in the list,
you really have a function called
to a specific version of this demographic data.
So it's not part of your data,
but you can pull it in as needed.
So what happens is typically we have
hundreds of these input data sets,
and either all of them are fairly decent size,
but the data product itself,
the size of it is pretty small
because all of these are actual function calls,
they are not data.
But convention, since we have fewer of these outputs,
we keep them as data frames.
So you have data for analysis A,
data for analysis B,
you have some metadata and README and such.
The output can absolutely also be pinlinks if needed,
but the need hasn't been there so far.
So as you're thinking about this,
some limitations and constraints,
Dapr deals with tabular data,
but does not natively impose
or accommodate relational data models.
So that is consideration.
Dapr is not intended for large data tables.
So if you have a bunch of smallish to medium sized tables,
hundreds of megabytes,
you have hundreds of them, totally fine.
If you have single data tables that are gigantic,
at this point, we have some ideas how to deal with it,
but it hasn't been part of the use cases
that we have worked on and it's not supported.
So Dapr does not address data governance.
I would be glad to talk a little bit more about that.
But instead of actually looking at this as a shortcoming,
I look at this as an opportunity for collaboration
across the team.
So you can work with the data platforms
that have a lot of knobs and levers
that allow granular access being managed.
But that is not part of the elements
that is managed by Dapr.
And most importantly,
Dapr and packages that it is built upon are very young.
So Dapr itself is not that old,
and pins and RN,
which are integral to its functionality,
are also quite young.
So in summary, I'm hoping at this point,
some of you see some value
and agree that with a minimal amount of work,
which we showed in those videos,
it doesn't take a whole lot of time,
you can take your current data wrangling
and trade it up to get a data product
that comes with all of those attributes
and guarantees that hopefully make the experience
of the user much more pleasant
and build efficiency as well across the team.
This is very much a project
that we are both heavily using
as a consumer of this framework,
but also we are developing.
And a lot of the development falls
along the cycle of DevOps,
but here we are having it for data.
To just mention some of these examples of projects
that we are working on.
So we are working on an information-based diffing of data.
This is a work that we had a great colleague
joining us for the summer
and contributed to building this DDiff package.
And we also are building vignettes
around how to automate.
So CICD, you know, set up data testing
is another element that we want
to kind of build vignettes around
so how folks can integrate data testing
into the workflow and some work
around adding additional metadata
to enable observability.
And lastly, something that is interesting
is that since data is recipe,
you can spin it up and spin it down.
So demand-based deployment could be something
that could help save storage if that is ever a concern.
So with that, I just wanted to take a moment again
to thank our CIFARMA meetup organizers and community.
And I need to acknowledge the efforts
of a lot of colleagues who have contributed,
thoughts, ideas, support one way or another
to this project.
And last but not least, all of you for tuning in today.
Yeah, I'd love to kind of talk a little bit more
and address some questions.
Awesome, thank you so much, Afshin.
And let me bring Phil over here too.
Awesome, I see, great, that was a great presentation.
Thank you so much.
There are a lot of questions starting to come in on Slido.
So I just wanna remind everybody
that you can ask questions wherever you are.
So if you're watching on LinkedIn, you can ask there
and we'll see them.
If you're on YouTube Live, you can ask there.
Or if you wanna ask anything anonymously,
you can use this Slido link here as well.
And we can share that into the chat
because you can't click on it here.
But one question that I see over on Slido
was what's your best advice for companies
running into issues getting approval to use open source?
Oh, that's a really good question.
I think I'll just defer that to Phil.
I think that's-
Typically, I mean, I would say for that,
it usually starts with a champion
that helps to drive some successes.
Shiny is great for that because it brings in
some capabilities into the organization.
But I mean, most of the big pharma's,
small and even medium sized ones,
there's usually a spark that starts with someone.
And that helps create competency centers
or data science meetups or hangouts.
They usually have a way for people to get help.
And that just starts to snowball into that.
But R is a great language for starting off
because you can have a lot of small little successes
that can really grow.
And that leads into Python and other languages,
and JavaScript and Julia and so on.
So usually it starts with the right person
at the company driving for it.
And Rachel has done a lot of good work
helping those people with the champion page.
Oh yeah, I will share that in the chat right now too.
So if anybody is in that position
of introducing open source tools
and need just a little support,
I recently created this site called rstudio.com champion,
but pulls together a lot of resources
from people like you all,
who have spoke at meetups and hangouts
and just shares what people have been doing.
I realized, Phil, when you weren't on initially,
I didn't actually introduce you.
So I'm curious to have you introduce yourself.
That's okay, I was running from a workshop.
So I was a tiny bit late.
But yeah, so I'm Phil.
I'm the director here of life sciences
and healthcare at RStudio.
And I work with a lot of the groups in the pharma space.
Yeah, I remember last year,
I saw this talk or a version of this talk at R and Pharma.
And I absolutely was blown away
because I feel like there's such a big impact right now
from the data science side.
And I feel like the common thread among that
is data wrangling, data management.
And you're seeing a lot of things coming over
from data science to helping improve these processes.
So it's just a great story.
And I think what you're talking about
is very applicable across drug discovery,
research, clinical trials, even post-marketing,
other divisions of the business.
I think it's a great example of how data science
can really help across these areas.
So fantastic work.
But anyway, thank you, Rachel.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Ashton.
I see somebody else asked on Slido.
If you had to guess, what is your team
or company's mix of R, Python, SAS?
Hmm.
This is about BMS.
That's...
BMS is a very big organization, as you know,
and there are a lot of communities within it.
So my exposure is to the community that I am part of
in research and early development,
informatic and predictive sciences.
And we are heavy users of R,
at least from the vantage point
that I have, I would say,
at least within the location that I am,
I would say perhaps 70% plus is R.
And if you go to the clinical side,
perhaps there's more usage of...
By clinical, I mean research and early developments,
more data science flavor.
Then you have the clinical stats,
the departments that, historically,
as in all pharma, there's been more SAS.
And with some of the flavors of machine learning,
I think more and more folks are using Python.
Julia is coming along.
I can't put a number on it,
how many folks are using what percentage,
but that's perhaps the best I can provide.
Thank you.
Yeah, sure.
I see somebody had asked a question over on LinkedIn,
and I think this was towards the very beginning
of the presentation that said,
when you mentioned the vanilla code,
is it possible to discuss about it here?
Vanilla code?
I can't recall.
Yeah, so I'll try to,
and please chime in if I'm not addressing your question.
So we do, so the code itself,
the package itself generates code.
So it does provide some template code
when I talked about Blueprint.
So when you're starting your project,
it populates your folder with some base wiring
that then you can add to.
I don't know if that's what you refer to
as the vanilla code or not, or maybe I'm,
but if that's the idea is that,
yeah, so as you're starting your project,
it does add some starter code
for you to be able to wire your project together.
But I have a feeling that doesn't address the question.
Yeah, and we can clarify on LinkedIn too,
if that was your question, or on YouTube.
People can ask questions there too.
I see there was another question on Slido,
which is, how has it been implementing
the data as a product framework for a multilingual team?
Does your environment support Python and R,
and do you use Connect for this?
Yeah, I really love this question,
and because it is one of the things
that definitely on my mind,
at this point, it is primarily R, right?
Pins, which is an awesome package,
so shout out to the RStudio developers for Pins,
is at the core of this dapper.
Pins is a package that supports both Python and R,
and so the data products being Pins
can be pulled in theory by Python as well as R.
Now, when it comes to the development,
like we are talking about an end-to-end,
so we can get a recipe and can build it up.
Of course, that code is written in R.
Of course, the packages are written in R.
So in theory, it is totally feasible
to write R code in a way that interfaces with Python
and or vice versa,
and have a sister package that essentially manages that
where the code itself, if you wanted to reproduce it,
not if you wanted to use it, as I said,
if you want to just use it,
you can absolutely use the Pins,
which is at the core of this by Python or R,
but if you're developing it,
there is some dependency on the environments
that you're developing on.
So it can be done in theory,
but perhaps it's better to kind of choose
where you want to be.
And in terms of going back and forth,
again, I think it's feasible.
It's just a matter of that development taking place.
At this point, that hasn't been done.
A great question.
Thank you, and I am just scrolling over
to see if there are other questions,
and I'm not seeing them pop up yet,
but I just want to turn it over to you, Phil,
to see if you have a general question you want to ask too.
So many thoughts around this.
What's it like with new users coming into this?
Is there a certain type of training?
Is data as a product and data wrangling and CICD?
I would say are newer methodologies coming in.
What's it like for people coming to this new
or used to running these things more manually
or in like a batch mode?
Absolutely.
So again, I want to kind of distinguish
between folks coming to this as a user
or folks coming to this as a developer.
So as a user, I think it's pretty straightforward.
So the kind of ramp up to like,
okay, this is the data library and I can pull in.
So that part is much easier.
And then as a developer,
of course, there's more involved here, right?
And I want to kind of say that how critical this is,
and this is one of the things that we have learned
since the first time we presented on this.
Technology goes so far.
It is really about these,
when it comes to these DevOps practices,
it's really about culture.
It's really about the collaboration.
So it's been absolutely critical for us
to be able to forge those relations and commitments
and change in the mindset of how we are doing data.
So it is a commitment.
It is something that folks need to say,
okay, I'm going to commit to being able to,
or kind of like incurring this cost,
establishing my data infrastructure in this way.
And that commitment leads to some changes in how,
like the question of when the data is done.
It is a parallel to question to when we are done
and analyzing TCGA, for example.
No one asked that question
because there's so many questions
you can ask from that data set.
So building that mental bridge and cultural shift,
I think is something that takes time.
From the technology perspective,
learning the code and all of that,
I feel someone going through it a couple of times,
they will be able to pick it up.
And one learning again that we have had
is that it is really important for those in the team
who are a little bit more experienced
to lower the kind of the entry barriers a little bit.
So you bring in your wrangling code,
you can work with your colleagues
to integrate that into Dapr.
And then from that point on, they can maintain it.
So it's a little bit of a commitment,
but it's something that once folks make that commitment,
I think within a course of a month or so,
they can fully be in this cycle
of developing the data across the team.
And for surfacing out the data
and for people looking for and finding,
is there like a data dictionary or a system
or do they go into an environment?
Because someone says,
I want this assay data or this research data.
How do they go about locating that?
Yeah, absolutely.
So building additional metadata
that makes the dataset searchable
is certainly something that there's room for
to build additional metadata.
At this point, the owner of the data,
folks who are subject matter experts
are perhaps the best people to connect with.
So if you, I'm saying it is absolutely possible
to put metadata out there,
but the preferred route is a lot of times
folks want to just kind of go fishing for data, right?
And a lot of the context may be missed.
So if they have specific questions
that you know you work within a team
and you know like this team actually owns a data product.
So it's just a matter of having that conversation up front
and then that kind of eithers it in.
So in a way they kind of like a global world of metadata
allow folks to kind of like drill down
and get exactly what they want.
It has been prioritized with respect
to like more personal connections on these data products,
but absolutely doable to add metadata.
And do traditional data environments like databases
and maybe even larger distributed data sources,
does that also play into here
or is this more for flat files or?
No, absolutely.
So we, a data product in examples that we have worked on
brings in data from a diversity of sources.
So you may have a traditional relational database
that there's a table you want.
So you bring that in
and then you augment it with a table
that you have curated yourself of medications
and the classifications, for example.
The key element is that unlike some of these relational,
unlike some of these data repositories
or data platforms that are live data
that could change anytime,
here we are to snapshotting.
So every time you're bringing it,
you're taking a snapshot of that state
and then you onboard it into your data product.
And do you have scheduling components?
Like if they say, hey, pull this every day at 9 a.m.,
run this and then when the scientists wanna access the data
it's routinely updated with the new lab data, for example.
Yeah, so that can absolutely be done.
We haven't had the kind of automation of that as a use case.
One of the things that we talk about with our colleagues
is that the cadence of data products is at a slower pace.
So if you have a data set that you need to look at every day
perhaps you don't spend a huge amount of effort
feature engineering and all of those elements.
If it's like, if a single patient's coming in,
your statistics is not gonna change.
It is, we are kind of going for like a quarterly update
to this data product.
We are going deep,
but the data evolution is kind of, it's not that rapid.
In theory, you can absolutely do it, right?
You know, you can just, that could be part of the code
that a snapshot set and just kind of these data products.
I think it's something we see pretty often
when especially our developers,
the idea of creating an ETL job, scheduling that,
and the output of that being a data product or a data set
that then is fed downstream into a machine learning model
or a Shiny app, for example.
Right, right, right.
Yeah, yeah.
No, absolutely, absolutely.
I see there's a few other questions
that are coming through on Slido.
I wanna make sure we go over to as well.
But one was, Afshin, could you explain more
about using promises to manage credentials
that will be needed in the user's environment?
Yeah, absolutely.
So everything that is in a data product becomes code, right?
Including the function calls.
So if you need to access something
that is behind some authentication layer, right?
One way is to kind of provide that, you know,
password, put it in the text, and then goes in your repo.
Of course, that is a big no-no, right?
So what we can do is we can have a function call as a text.
So imagine, like, you know, if it is, you know,
an environment variable in R with the sys.getEnv,
and there it is, the environment variable.
So these then become promises.
So you can imagine you have a configuration file
that tells where the data is
and what password you use to get to the data.
It doesn't tell you the exact password.
It says, run this command.
And that is the promise that says,
when you run this command, this environment variable
or this key is going to be present in the environment.
So that's what I mean by a promise.
Hopefully that was clear.
Thank you.
There's another question that I might reframe
just a little bit to expand on it, but it was anonymous.
But it's, are there certain tools that you've tried
that haven't worked well for your requirements
and how did you move towards getting the right tools
that you needed?
So some, is it in the context
of building these data products?
I think that, I think it might be in the context of that.
It was an anonymous question,
but feel free to add more context
on Slido anonymously too.
Yeah, so if, apologies if I'm not addressing this,
but the tools that we have tried
that haven't quite done what we wanted,
like one of them is the DDIF, right?
So the idea of the DDIF.
So right now, so the idea is,
if you're thinking about your data and codes
to be kind of interchangeable,
when you're writing a code and you committed
and then someone says, okay,
what's the difference between this version
and the previous version?
You do a DDIF and get this,
and it will tell you like the lines of code that has changed.
Now, imagine you have two columns of data.
Everything is multiplied by two.
Now, every single element in the million rows
is going to pop up as text different, right?
You know, you started with one, one becomes two.
But from an information perspective,
nothing much has changed.
You know, you have just multiplied everything by a factor.
So when we would like to be able to do the DDIF
on the data side, that is as actionable
as when you do a DDIF on the text side.
And if you want to use the text-based DDIF,
which are a lot of good packages out there
that does that in R4U,
you don't get that information base.
You don't see how the likelihood of the data now has shifted.
So if you were to say, if you come up with a score
that says, oh, your data shifted by, you know, 0.02,
you know, I know that's kind of perhaps a high bar,
but that is an actionable thing.
It's like, I don't need to run my ML model
because my data barely changed.
Versus, you know, your data has changed, you know,
by, you know, 95%, right?
There's some likelihood or something that is, you know,
tells you that your data really shifted.
So that is something that we are developing now.
And we did look at all of the things
that are available out there,
and it wasn't quite doing what we wanted.
But perhaps I'm not answering that question.
So please feel free to ask again.
Oh, thank you.
That's really helpful.
Yeah, and again, feel free to add more context on Slido
if you want us to expand on anything
or ask questions in YouTube or LinkedIn.
But Abshin, this question,
we were actually just talking about this yesterday, I know.
Someone said, there's a supportive community
for open source and pharma,
even though it's a competitive industry,
other industries seem less open to sharing.
Why do you think that is?
Well, I think, Rachel, probably you have
as much and more insight than I do
because you go across industry.
But one thing I want to say, I grew up in biotech
and more on the technology side of the biomedical research.
So I watched for a while pharma and then I joined.
And I was, even back then, I was blown away
by the generosity of pharma for putting code out there,
putting algorithms even out there.
I don't know exactly, I can't speak for universal pharma,
but I feel like everyone who is in pharma
is really, really focused on patients' lives.
And when you're thinking about those medicines,
when you're thinking about those chemistries
and how we are innovating on therapeutics,
that is where a lot of sensitivity
and desire is to innovate, right?
And there's a huge amount of generosity
when it comes to algorithms
that are not the core offering of this pharma.
So if this helps the industry, they put it out there.
Again, a specific example, me working in a biotech
was that I was working with an algorithm
that could be monetized
because it would help the patient selection.
But the pharma that we were working on, just open sources,
as you know, you guys want to make a product out of it,
go right ahead.
So that is my impression.
But yeah, I don't know how you address this, Rachel.
No, that's a great, great answer.
I think it's been really powerful
to see all the community initiatives around pharma
and Phil can speak much more to this,
but also seeing everybody coming together for R and pharma
or starting off small working groups
and getting to grow that,
I think really helps make it what it is.
So it seems like there's so many leaders
around the pharma space
who are just kind of taking an idea and running with it
and getting people to work together, which is amazing.
I think you hit the nail on the head.
It's inspiring work.
I mean, we're creating medicine and helping people's lives.
And I mean, I think everybody personally
or through family members have been impacted.
I know I have been and I love the industry
and I love supporting it.
I've felt this way since day one being involved in it.
And I think too, there's a strong background
to the academia space
and there's a lot of research that comes out of that
and it carries over into the ecosystem,
which is also helps create some of the culture
and the excitement for research.
But yeah, it's a great space to support.
So yeah, R and pharma has been awesome for this.
Bioconductor is another really awesome space.
And it's amazing to see groups like AstraZeneca
and other groups, Pfizer, for example,
they have very large BMS as well.
I mean, Celgene, Ian Wallace and Isaac Newhouse
and all the awesome people that you work with, right?
There's amazing groups within these pharmas
that are also very big and thriving
and focused on collaboration and on community
and discussing these types of topics.
And it's all for that single mission
that you first spoke about, so yeah.
Thank you so much for all that you do
and for sharing with the community
and in an event like this as well.
I see there are a few other questions.
I know we just hit the top of the hour.
Do you have a few more minutes?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, okay, awesome.
I see Carlos said, great presentation, thanks.
Just curious, does this data as code
and code as data paradigm have something to do
with the so-called list-like functional approach to code,
which I will say, I don't know what that is,
so that would be great to understand as well.
Yeah, that is, if it does, it would be one of those cases
that perhaps we'll learn about it
because I am also not familiar
with exactly the parallel between,
first of all, I have no list experience,
to put it out there.
And in terms of functional programming,
I don't know if this answers the question.
It are being a functional programming language
as opposed to an object-oriented by nature, right?
It's a math-based language, right?
The framework actually highly encourages
by using, some of you know, the package Drake
that has been converted to Target.
It actually builds the data recipes based on Drake
where everything is converted to a function.
So all of the drangling essentially becomes function
and individual scripts.
So it encourages functional programming,
but I don't know if it addresses the question
about the list-like functional approach.
So maybe reach out and then we can talk more about it.
It's awesome to hear you using Targets.
Will does awesome work with that package.
That package is gold.
Gold, yeah.
Afshin, I realized I forgot to share your link
to your GitHub as well,
but I wanted to pull that up on the screen here too.
And again, speaking of kind of the openness of pharma,
I got a shout out to my employer in this case,
which, you know, when we put it out there,
it's like, yeah, you can open source this.
So it is now in my GitHub repo,
but it really is out in the open.
So I really appreciate anyone, you know,
looking at the code, having ideas.
If you would like to collaborate,
yeah, just much, much appreciated.
Thoughts, ideas, criticism, anything that you can bring
that will make this more, hopefully more useful.
It's very interesting because in the late stage phase,
there's kind of a, not really, not kind of,
there's actually a strong movement happening right now
to bring and consolidate and qualify
some of the core packages used for clinical,
called the Pharmaverse.
Be interesting to see if something similar happens
like within the packaging that you're talking about.
It has already to a large degree
for genomics with bioconductor,
but it's amazing that people are starting to take packages
and bring them together into more cohesive ecosystems.
No, absolutely.
I mean, I think that would be,
I've meant to kind of explore that Pharmaverse
a little bit more.
I love that idea.
I mean, one thing that I would share,
it's kind of an insight.
When you do this, I'm a statistician by training,
so I come to this data management tool sets world
from that around.
And, you know, in my head, you know,
initially there's this data world
and then there's the analysis world,
but it is one continuum.
Like let's say you do an analysis,
if you come up with an inference table,
that is new data that you can tag along
to your data product.
Or, and so there's the distinction between analysis
and data, it just blends together.
So having our support from A to Z here
and being all in one language
and you don't have to, you know,
bring in five different, you know,
set of languages and expertise together,
I think is really powerful in terms of reproducibility,
in terms of folks being able to have ability
to go across and check the work, so.
Yeah, yeah.
Do you see Shiny being a part of that
and consuming some of these data products
or surfacing them out?
Absolutely.
I mean, I think when you zoom out,
you see this Vista that you have data and inference
and then Shiny is like a user interface for all of it.
So one thing that is very, very relevant to Shiny
and I would say RStudio Connect,
we are heavily using that because what happens
is this data product I shared at the end of the day,
it's a programmatic accessible object.
It needs to have, if you want to collaborate
with that, you know, colleague of yours
who has tremendous amount of information on the biology
or on the clinical side,
they want to be able to interface that
through a user interface.
So we build these automated reports
that brings in the data products and surfaces them.
So, you know, the MDs and, you know,
the biologists can really dig deep
and then feedback, so go ahead and change your data.
So then this becomes part of that DevOps cycle.
So the data itself iterates
and we are getting all of that feedback
through Shiny, through the R Markdowns
and the interface between the two of them.
If it's okay, so what was it like going from,
you know, statistics, statistician type work
to so much data wrangling, data engineering,
data, I mean, it's such a awesome area
that you're working in now.
What was that transition like for you?
Yeah, no, absolutely.
I mean, what really inspired,
so I started my career as an engineer,
no data, I was building hard work.
And then I saw data, I was like,
I gotta get my hands on that.
So I went and got training in biostatistics.
Yeah.
And then once I was working developing algorithms,
I started building, so I was developing algorithms
for, you know, kind of data mining
on publicly available data
and building, you know, genetic signature.
I realized that what really matters,
and this is something that we are hearing
in the concept of data centric AI,
particularly in biomedical research.
This is good.
If you were to spend a dollar,
if you spent 70 cents of that dollar on data
and 30 cents of that on, you know,
your new fancy algorithms that is coming,
you would be much better off
than doing it the other way around.
Yeah.
There's a lot of value to be, you know,
kind of retrieved from the data work.
So that is really what drew me more and more into this.
And I think that is bio,
like if you think about a row of data in biological data,
compared that to click data that is maybe in the industry
of, you know, when you think about, you know,
other industries outside bio,
that row of data could worth, you know,
hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Yeah.
So in terms of actual,
and if you can put a dollar value on it,
it's super precious.
Yeah.
So efforts on the data for me was an awakening.
Like I am doing this statistic machine learning
algorithm development.
Yeah.
But if I can shift my focus a little bit towards the data,
you know, there's a lot of ripe opportunities.
There's so much excitement in the space right now.
You were mentioning algorithms around, you know,
deep learning, AI first principles,
impacting, especially drug discovery.
Are you seeing and being part of that too,
as well right now?
No, absolutely.
I mean, there's tremendous amount of excitement
about AI in all industries.
And, you know, pharma is no exception,
particularly when it comes to, you know,
new therapeutics being developed using AI and all of that.
I personally am not part of that effort,
but what I've seen, you know,
as someone who has come from that background
of a statistics machine learning,
is that there is a lot of excitement on that AI front,
rightly so, but I would say there is room
to get a lot more excited about the data itself.
So I think Android has this really cool, you know,
set of ideas about, you can iterate on your model
a bunch of times and you go, you know, this far,
you can iterate on your data and you go this far.
So that is something that I feel particularly in biofield
needs a little bit more effort.
And all of those cool algorithms that you use
on the learning side can actually be applied
to the data side.
A lot of unsupervised learning algorithms
have tremendous value on the data side.
So I see an opportunity more and more
for focusing on that area.
The data is the common thread throughout all of that.
Do you also get involved on the massive data side,
like the large data sources, Spark, HDFS, things like that?
Does that come up much with the data engineering side of it?
Well, we do have massive data that comes along
and in the context that I have been involved
for machine learning purposes,
a lot of the data in pharma, we are not very long data.
We are wide data.
A trial could have a hundred folks, a hundred people in it,
could be hundreds of millions of dollars.
So you have for that one patient, you know,
millions of attributes that you're collecting.
So a lot of the, I think a lot of the machine learning,
a lot of the algorithms typically have been in the realm
of being able to address high dimensional data.
And, you know, in the industry
where you have very long data,
you know, folks using Spark and others,
there's absolutely, it hasn't been in my experience.
So I'm sure it's in like other, you know,
colleagues within my company are leveraging that.
But in the world that I am part of,
our big data has been the wide data.
Yeah, yeah, lots of stuff.
Well, I can keep going on all day.
No, I love this.
I did want to bring it back to the community
for a second here,
because I see Babu asked a great question.
Babu's in the early phase of RNA sequencing data analysis
and needs some support and engagement
with a similar community.
What is the best way for someone who's new to the community
to get involved and where should they go?
For this one, I mean, I think a clear one
is the bioconnector space is really big
and opening community
as well as they have a great conference.
I think I've even come to it in New York City,
believe it or not.
I think it was at a university in New York.
So I would check that out if you're not familiar with it.
Our informant also has some capabilities
to connect with others in the RNA sync.
We kind of mix it throughout
all of the drug development phases.
But yeah, do you have others that you would suggest?
You're probably definitely more closer to the community
on that end than I am, but anything come to mind?
Yeah, I was trying to find the link
for some of the upcoming meetups
or like local meetup groups too,
but sometimes it's hard to do two things at once here.
So I will definitely share those links
with the recording as well.
But I would say also just getting in touch
and meeting people at some of the other
RStudio community events as well.
I'm always happy to try and help connect people.
There's so many other community events
and programs that I don't yet know about
that I'm just learning about all the time.
One great place to meet people is every Thursday
at RStudio, we host a data science hangout.
And so this is at noon Eastern time every Thursday.
And we have a different featured leader from the community
who comes on and answers questions
and you get to meet everybody else
who's there and ask questions.
I'd say that's a great place to ask this question too
and I can ask that to them as well.
But this link here is a calendar
of all the upcoming community events as well.
I'm gonna do one last check here
to see if there are any questions that I missed.
And if I have missed your question,
feel free to ask it again on LinkedIn or YouTube
so I don't miss anything.
Awesome.
Well, thank you.
Yeah, thank you so much, Ashton,
for such a great presentation.
And I just wanna call out again,
your GitHub link here in just a second.
So if people have suggestions
or wanna work together with you,
is that the best place to go?
Absolutely.
So if you want to engage at the code level
or if you have ideas,
feel free to create an issue
or if you have pull requests or otherwise,
definitely this is an active area of development.
I'll keep an eye on it.
If you needed to get in touch with me on other subject
that are relevant to this,
that may not be so tied to the code,
feel free to find me on LinkedIn, message me
and yeah, I would be happy to follow up.
Awesome.
Well, thank you all so much.
Thank you, Ashton.
And thank you all for the great questions as well
and being here with us today.
Yep.
One last thing I'll add is that
I think this is actually our seventh installment
of our Life Sciences series.
So you can find the past one we had with Merck,
we've done some with Roche, Novaris and so on.
So it's wonderful to add BMS to that list
and keep up the awesome work.
No, thank you so much for creating this space
and fostering that spirit of collaboration.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you so much, Rachel.
Thanks a lot, Phil.
Yeah, I was just telling Rachel before this,
I followed the last week's installment
with FDA functional data analysis
and all of them are awesome.
So thank you so much for creating this space
and yeah, just kind of allowing knowledge to be shared.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.